applications: machine_learning: Add documentation (#4519)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/machine_learning/README.rst

.. _nrf_machine_learning_app:

nRF machine learning
####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The nRF machine learning application is an out of the box reference design of an :ref:`embedded machine learning` using :ref:`Edge Impulse`.

Author: Ok, done

The application performs the following tasks:

* Gathers data from sensors
* Forwards data to Edge Impulse
* Runs machine learning model and displays results on LEDs

Overview
********

> As it was mentioned before, the nRF machine learning application performs multiple tasks.

Author: removed

> The tasks are described by the paragraphs below.

Author: ok, changed

Sampling sensors
================

Sensor sampling is handled by CAF Sensor sampler module.
The mentioned CAF module uses :ref:`zephyr:sensor_api` to handle sensor sampling.
This approach makes it easy to use any sensor available in Zephyr.

By default, the following sensors are used by the application:

* On **Thingy:52** - the built-in accelerometer (``LIS2DH``).
* On **nRF52840 Development Kit**  - the simulated sensor (``sensor_sim`` available in |NCS|).
  The simulated sensor generates predefined waves as acceleration.
  This board does not have a built-in accelerometer.

Forwarding data
===============

The application uses :ref:`Edge Impulse's data forwarder` protocol to forward data to :ref:`Edge Impulse studio` over :ref:`zephyr:uart_api` or :ref:`nus_service_readme`.

By default, the following transports are used:

* **Thingy:52** uses NUS.
* **nRF52840 Development Kit** uses UART.

> Machine learning model

Reviewer: The intro mentions LED usage, but there is no mention of LEDs in this section.

Author: ok, I will mention it in overview

======================

> The machine learning model is handled using :ref:`ei_wrapper` available in |NCS|.

Reviewer: `in the |NCS|` (global edit)

Author: done

> By default, the application uses pretrained models deployed in :ref:`Edge Impulse studio`:

Reviewer: What does `pretrained` mean?

Author: The model that was trained before on a predefined dataset to perform given tasks (e.g. for our gesture classification task)

> * On **Thingy:52** - the model uses built-in accelerometer data to recognize the following gestures:

Reviewer: We use bold only for PCB elements. No formatting should be applied around board names.

Author: ok, fixed

  * ``idle`` - the device is placed on a flat surface.
  * ``updown`` - the device is moved in updown direction.
  * ``rotate`` - the device is rotated.

>   * ``tap`` - the device is tapped while placed on a flat surface.

Reviewer: Why are the gesture names in code formatting? I'd add an explanation where I can find these code names in the app/EI app.

Author: These names are specific to used machine learning model. In Edge Impulse studio you define labels that should be assigned to given gestures. I will add information about this.
In application source code this names are used by the `ml_result_event` and `led_state_def.h` file. Still, the application only refers to labels (strings) that are defined by the machine learning model.

>   The unknown gestures, like for example shaking the device, are recognized as anomaly.

Reviewer: Is anomaly a gesture type, like ``anomaly``? If so, I'd add it to the list.

Author: Anomaly in our case is a separate thing.
The neural network reports assigned label and value related to the label (as classification results).
Apart from the neural network that performs classification task, the application uses K-means anomaly detection algorithm to detect anomalies (the input data that is different than all of the data used to train the model). If reported anomaly score is too high, then classification result reported by the neural network is ignored and the result is marked as anomaly.

* On **nRF52840 Development Kit**  - the model uses simulated sensor data to recognize the following simulated wave types:

  * ``sine``
  * ``triangle``
  * ``idle``

  The ``square`` wave signal can also be generated by the simulated sensor.

>   This signal is unknown to the machine learning model and therefore it's marked as an anomaly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This signal is unknown to the machine learning model and therefore it is marked as anomaly.
```

Author: done

   After a brief delay, machine learning model recognizes the simulated signal.
   ``LED1`` and ``LED2`` display the same LED effect.
#. Press ``Button 3`` to change generated acceleration signal.
   Right after the signal change, effects displayed by LEDs are different.
   After a brief delay, machine learning model recognizes the ``triangle`` wave and the same effect (2 blinks) is displayed by both LEDs.
#. Press ``Button 3`` to again change generated acceleration signal.
   The ``square`` wave (3 blinks) is displayed only by the ``LED2``.
   This signal is marked as anomaly by the machine learning model and ``LED1`` starts breathing.
#. Press and hold ``Button 1`` the for time longer than 5 seconds to switch to data forwarding mode.
   After the mode is switched, ``LED1`` starts to blink rapidly.
   Connect to a kit with a terminal emulator (for example, PuTTY).
   See :ref:`putty` for the required settings.
#. Observe sensor readouts represented as comma-separated values.
   Every line represents a single sensor readout.

> #. Turn off putty to ensure that only one program will access data on UART.

Reviewer: PuTTY

Author: fixed

* :ref:`zephyr:sensor_api`
* :ref:`zephyr:uart_api`

The application uses the following |NCS| libraries and drivers:

* :ref:`event_manager`
* :ref:`lib_caf`
* :ref:`ei_wrapper`
* :ref:`nus_service_readme`

In addition, you can use the :ref:`central_uart` sample together with the application.
The sample is used to receive data over NUS and forward it to the host over UART.

.. _nrf_machine_learning_app_internal_modules:

Application internal modules
****************************

The nRF Machine Learning application uses modules available in :ref:`lib_caf` and a set of dedicated internal modules.
See `Firmware architecture`_ for more information.
More information about each application module used and its configuration details are available on the subpages.

Each module documentation page has a table that shows the relations between module events.
`Module event tables`_ for some modules include extensive lists of source and sink modules.
These are valid for events that have many listeners or sources, and are gathered on the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app_event_rel_modules` subpage.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Subpages:

   doc/event_rel_modules.rst
   doc/main.rst

>    doc/led_state.rst

Reviewer: These module pages need more details.

The nRF Machine Learning application uses modules available in :ref:`lib_caf` and a set of dedicated internal modules.
See `Firmware architecture`_ for more information.

> The nRF Machine Learning application uses the following modules available in CAF:

Author: Ok, added your change

* :ref:`caf_ble_adv`
* :ref:`caf_ble_state`
* :ref:`caf_buttons`
* :ref:`caf_click_detector`
* :ref:`caf_leds`
* :ref:`caf_sensor_sampler`

More information about every used CAF module and its configuration details are available on the linked subpage of the module.

The nRF Machine learning application uses also the following dedicated application modules:

* ``ei_data_forwarder_bt_nus``
  The module forwards the sensor readouts over NUS to a Bluetooth connected central.
  The sensor data is forwarded only if the connection is secured and connection interval is within the limit defined by :option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL_PREF_MAX_INT` and :option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL_PREF_MAX_INT`.
* ``ei_data_forwarder_uart``
  The module forwards the sensor readouts over UART.
* ``led_state``
  The module displays the application state using LEDs.

>   The LED effects used to display state of the data forwarding, machine learning results and simulated signal are defined in :file:`led_state_def.h` file located in the application configuration directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The LED effects used to display the state of data forwarding, the machine learning results, and the state of the simulated signal are defined in :file:`led_state_def.h` file located in the application configuration directory.
```

>   Common LED effects are used to represent the machine learning results and the simulated sensor signal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The common LED effects are used to represent the machine learning results and the simulated sensor signal.
```

* ``ml_runner``
  The module uses :ref:`ei_wrapper` API to control running the machine learning model.

>   The module provides the prediction results using :c:struct:`ml_result_event`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It provides the prediction results using :c:struct:`ml_result_event`.
```

  The module runs the machine learning model and provides results only if there is an active subsriber.

>   An application modules can inform that it is actively listening for results using an :c:struct:`ml_result_signin_event`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An application module can inform that it is actively listening for results using :c:struct:`ml_result_signin_event`.
```

* ``ml_state``
  The module controls switching between running the machine learning model and forwarding the data.

>   The change is triggered by long press of the button defined in the module's configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The change is triggered by a long press of the button defined in the module's configuration.
```

* ``sensor_sim_ctrl``
  The module controls parameters of the generated simulated sensor signal.

>   The module switches between predefined sets of parameters for the simulated signal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It switches between predefined sets of parameters for the simulated signal.
```

>   Parameters of the generated signals are defined by the :file:`sensor_sim_ctrl_def.h` file located in the application configuration directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The parameters of the generated signals are defined by the :file:`sensor_sim_ctrl_def.h` file located in the application configuration directory.
```

> .. warning::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
```
We use warnings only for application-breaking cases.

   The ``ei_data_forwarder_bt_nus`` and ``ei_data_forwarder_uart`` stop forwarding the sensor readouts if they receive a :c:struct:`sensor_event` that cannot be forwarded and needs to be dropped.

>    This could happen, for example, if the selected sensor sampling frequency is too high for used implementation of the Edge Impulse data forwarder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This could happen, for example, if the selected sensor sampling frequency is too high for the used implementation of the Edge Impulse data forwarder.
```

>    Data forwaring is stopped to make sure that dropping samples will be noticed by the user.

Author: done
